<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy, see www.w3.org" />
<link href='style.css' title='Default' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css' media='all' />
<title>Reading HTML mail using vilistextum</title>
</head>
<body>
<h4>&lt;COMMERCIAL&gt;</h4>

Do you suffer from relatives that always send html mails?<br />
 Do you hate those spam mails that are sent in html?<br />
 Have you subscribed to a mailing list but it doesn't offer a plain
ascii version? 

<p>Stop puzzling what those tags mean! Stop trying to decipher
those html entities!<br />
 Try using the fabulous Vilistextum for converting your html mail
into readable ascii!<br />
</p>

<h4>&lt;/COMMERCIAL&gt;</h4>

<p>For the time being, I know how to convert HTML mails for <a href="#mutt">mutt</a>,
<a href="#gnus588">Gnus 5.8.8</a> and <a href="#gnusoort">Gnus 5.10</a>.<br />
 Instructions for other mail reader are welcome.</p>

<h3><a name="mutt">mutt</a></h3>

Put this in your .mailcap:<br />
 

<pre>text/html; vilistextum %s - ; copiousoutput
</pre>

<p>And this in your .muttrc:<br />
</p>

<pre>auto_view text/html
</pre>

<h3><a name="gnusoort">Gnus Oort and newer (5.10, No Gnus)</a></h3>
Put the following lines into your .gnus:
<pre>;; prefer to show plain text over markup for multipart/alternative
(setq  mm-discouraged-alternatives (append mm-discouraged-alternatives 
    '("text/html" "text/richtext")))

(add-to-list 'mm-text-html-renderer-alist 
		'(vilistextum mm-inline-render-with-file mm-links-remove-leading-blank
		"vilistextum" "-l" "-r" "-c" "-s" file "-"))
(add-to-list 'mm-text-html-washer-alist 
		'(vilistextum mm-inline-wash-with-file mm-links-remove-leading-blank
		"vilistextum" "-l" "-r" "-c" "-s" file "-"))
(setq mm-text-html-renderer 'vilistextum)
</pre>

<h3><a name="gnus588">Gnus 5.8.8 resp. 5.9.0</a></h3>

Put this in your .emacs, or .gnus or somewhere else where it might
be appropriate: 

<pre>;; ---------------------------------------------------------------------
;; prefer to show plain text over markup for multipart/alternative
(setq  mm-discouraged-alternatives (append mm-discouraged-alternatives 
    '("text/html" "text/richtext")))

;; adapted from Mark Thomas (swoon@bellatlantic.net)
;; use external program to view inline HTML
(when t ;; change to nil to comment out
  (let ((old-text-html-test (assoc "text/html" mm-inline-media-tests))
        (new-text-html-test '("text/html"
                              my:gnus-html2text
                              (lambda (handle)
                                (fboundp 'my:gnus-html2text)))))
    (if old-text-html-test
        (setcdr old-text-html-test (cdr new-text-html-test))
      (setq mm-inline-media-tests (cons new-text-html-test
                                        mm-inline-media-tests)))))

;; function to call to handle text/html attachments
(defun my:gnus-html2text (handle)
  (let (text)
    (with-temp-buffer
      (mm-insert-part handle)
      (save-window-excursion
        (my:html2text-region (point-min) (point-max))
        (setq text (buffer-string))))
    (mm-insert-inline handle text)))

(defun my:html2text-region-vilistextum (min max)
  "Replace the region with the result of running vilistextum on it. "
  (interactive "r")
  ;; vilistextum accepts html on stdin
  (call-process-region min max "vilistextum" t t t "-clrs" "-" "-"))

(defalias 'my:html2text-region 'my:html2text-region-vilistextum)
;; ---------------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>

<hr />
<address><a href="mailto:bhaak@gmx.net">Patric Mueller</a></address>

</body>
</html>

