<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Vilistextum</title>
  </head>
	
  <body>
		<h3>Abstract</h3>
		
		Vilistextum is a html to text / ascii converter specifically programmed to get the
		best out of incorrect html. It is released as free software under the terms of the GNU GPL.
		
		<h3>Some features:</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>small and fast</li>
			<li>understands HTML 3.2 upto 4.01 and XHTML 1.0</li>
			<li>creates footnotes for links</li>
			<li>can swallow multiple empty lines</li>
			<li>removes empty ALT tags</li>
			<li>converts characters and entities between 128 and 159 from the
				windows1252 charset to meaningful strings in 8859-1. E.g. 0x93 is converted
				to ".</li>
			<li>output can be optimized for ebook reading</li>
			<li>GUI-frontend using kaptain</li>	
			<li>supports various multibyte encodings (e.g. Unicode, Shift_JIS)</li>
		</ul>
		
		<h3>REQUIREMENT:</h3>		
		<p>			For multibyte support your system needs a iconv implementation. Alternatively you can use 
			<a href="http://www.gnu.org/software/libiconv/">libiconv</a>.
		</p>
		<p>				
			If you want to use the GUI-frontend, you need to have
			<a href="http://kaptain.sourceforge.net/">kaptain</a> installed.</p>
							
			<h3>INSTALL:</h3>
			./configure <br />
			make <br />
				make install (as root)<br />
					<br />
						If you want to compile in the multibyte support:<br />
							./configure --enable-multibyte<br />
							make <br />
								make install (as root)
								<br />
									<h3>DOWNLOAD:</h3>
									
									<a href="vilistextum-2.6.4.tar.gz" type="application/x-zip-compressed">vilistextum-2.6.4.tar.gz</a><br />
										<a href="vilistextum-2.6.4.tar.bz2" type="application/x-bzip2">vilistextum-2.6.4.tar.bz2</a><br />

											<h3>USAGE:</h3>
											<h4>vilistextum [OPTIONS] [inputfile|-] [outputfile|-]</h4>

											<h4>kilistextum</h4>

											GUI-frontend using kaptain. Its usage should be obvious, even if you haven't
											read this manual.
											<br />
												Start with "kilistextum". The makefile tries to guess where kaptain resides.
												If it fails you can add something like "#!/pathto/kaptain" to the first line
										or start it with "kaptain kilistextum". 

										<h4>Command line arguments</h4>
										<dl>
											<dt>inputfile,- resp. outputfile,-</dt>

											<dd>Replace inputfile with '-' for reading from standard input, likewise
												outputfile with '-' for writing to standard output.<br /> </dd>

											<dt>--version</dt>
											<dd>Report version number and release date.<br />
											</dd>

											<dt>-h,--help</dt>
											<dd>Print a list of the command line options.<br />
													<br />
											</dd>

											<dt>-c, --convert-tags</dt>
											<dd>Some of the tags will be converted to special characters.<br />
													Eg: "&lt;B&gt;Bold&lt;/B&gt; isn't &lt;I&gt;italic&lt;/I&gt; isn't
									&lt;U&gt;underlined&lt;/U&gt; isn't &lt;EM&gt;emphasized&lt;EM&gt; but is
								like &lt;STRONG&gt;strong&lt;/STRONG&gt;."<br />
								will be output as "*Bold* isn't /italic/ isn't _underlined_ isn't
						/emphasized/ but is like *strong*."</dd>

				<dt>-p, --palm</dt>
				<dd>This outputs text more suitable for reading on a PDA.<br />
						Palm textreader do their own wordwrapping, so the width is set to infinity
						and the program doesn't rightjustify or center the text.<br />
				</dd>

				<dt>-w, --width number</dt>
				<dd>Maximum width of the output text.<br />
						Default: 72.</dd>

				<dt>-m, --dont-convert-characters</dt>
				<dd>The entities from windows1252 (&amp;#128 - &amp;#159 and their
					proper entitiy names) will not be converted.<br />
						<br />
				</dd>

				<dt>-s, --shrink-lines [number]</dt>
				<dd>If there are more than number empty lines, output only &lt;number&gt;.<br />
						Default: 1.</dd>

				<dt>-l, --links</dt>
				<dd>Numbers the links in the document and creates footnotes of each link at
					the end of the file. Similar to 'lynx -dump'. Note: Relative URIs are not
					resolved and won't be printed.<br />
				</dd>
				
				<dt>-t, --no-title</dt>
				<dd>Don't output title of the HTML document</dd>
				
				<dt>-e, --errorlevel number</dt>
				<dd>Increase level of verbosity for error messages. <br />
						&#160;0: No error messages<br />
							&#160;1: Show unrecognized entities<br />
								&#160;2: Show unknown tags<br />
									&gt;2: Mostly debugging information<br /><br /></dd>
				


				<dt>-i, --defimage string</dt>
				<dd>IMG tags without alt attribute are output as [string].<br />
						Default: Image.</dd>

				<dt>-r, --remove-empty-alt</dt>
				<dd>If there is an empty ALT attribute in a IMG tag (eg &lt;IMG href="..."
					alt=""&gt;), don't output '[]'.</dd>

				<dt>-n, --no-image</dt>
				<dd>Don't output [Image] for IMG tags that have no ALT attribute</dd>

				<dt>-a, --no-alt</dt>
				<dd>Don't output anything for IMG tags even if they have an ALT attribute.<br />
						Implies --no-image.<br /><br /></dd>
</dl>

<b>Multibyte Options (Only available if compiled with multibyte support)</b><br />
<dl>
				<dt>--charset defaultcharset</dt>
				<dd>If the HTML document doesn't provide a character set in the meta tags,
					the program uses defaultcharset.<br />
				</dd>
				<dt>--translit</dt>
				<dd>Use the //TRANSLIT feature of libiconv.<br />
			Consult the libiconv manual for details.<br />
			</dd>
				<dt>--output-utf-8</dt>
				<dd>Instead of the character set of the html document,<br />
						everything will be out as utf-8.<br />
				</dd>
			</dl>

				<h3>BUGS and similar features:</h3>

				The rendering of tables is not very good.<br />
					The handling of OL is incomplete. The program treats it as UL and more than 10
					nested lists confuse it.<br />
						Text is never justified.<br />

							<h3>How to read HTML mail with gnus or mutt using vilistextum</h3>
							If you want to use vilistextum for automatically converting html mails to
							ascii read htmlmail or 
							<a href="htmlmail.html">this</a>

							<h3>Bugreports or comments:</h3>
							You can send your comments or bugreports in english or german to 
							<a href="mailto:bhaak@gmx.net">this address</a>. 
							If you've discovered a bug, please also report the link or attach a copy of the
							html file that caused the bug. 
							<hr />

								<address>
									<a href="mailto:bhaak@gmx.net">Patric M&#252;ller</a>
								</address>
								
								<br />
  </body>
</html>

